---
published: false
---
You are here, which means you are on my new site.

## Welcome!

I have been meaning to migrate my blog from Wordpress for so long, the landscape for static site generators has matured to the point of enjoyable usability (with some magic sauce). Finally, I made my decisions after much thought on how I wanted to implement my site, and on a sustainable workflow. If you are interested on how I ended up with this website, read on.

## Some history

While I had abandoned writing on my old blog, I have been considering creating a new one for years (literally). In the meanwhile, my jobs at FactSet and CA Technologies gave me a chance to learn a lot about web technologies, among other things. So for my personal website, I wanted to build it by hand.

Being an obsessive perfectionist combined with having a low attention span for long personal projects kept me from actually finishing the new site. For a while, I fiddled with creating a [portfolio website](http://gauthamyerroju.com/personal-site/) but that didn't go as far as I planned either. A good project came about from that effort though, a minimal slider menu I wrote in CSS called [Slidey](http://gauthamyerroju.com/Slidey/).

## Static Site Generators

In the recent years, I have taken an interest in [static site generators](https://davidwalsh.name/introduction-static-site-generators). In a nutshell, <abbr title="Static Site Generator">SSG</abbr> combine content (typically written in Markdown) and a template (HTML, CSS and JS) into a completely static website (just HTML, CSS and JS). This is unlike blogging platforms like Wordpress or Blogger, or <abbr title="Content Management System">CMS</abbr>s like Drupal which rely on server-side functionality to dynamically generate web pages we visit.

The appeal for SSGs is obvious:
- We get very light-weight websites which load almost instantaneously (assuming we don't go crazy with a bunch of AJAX calls and dynamic widgets all over the place)
- We can deploy these sites practically on any web server, even on something like a self-hosted Raspberry Pi (as these sites are just files with no server side functionality).

There are a few catches though (aren't there always?):

1. We need to generate the website each time we add or remove content. This "generation" needs to happen somewhere, typically on the author's computer. This requires setting up the necessary environment, and we need that computer to publish changes.
2. Performance of site generation is affected as site grows. When there are a 1000 articles in markdown which need to be compiled into HTML, SSGs, depending on how they are implemented, SSGs can take anywhere from a few seconds to minutes (even with obvious optimizations like generting only changes or updating content).
3. Authoring is a pain. Granted, there are many good options to author Markdown, but I feel it is just cluncky having to manage properties and metadata (like tags, categories, etc.) in Markdown by hand. It would be nice to have an "admin panel" similar to what Wordpress offers.

For me, 1 and 2 are not really a problem. SSGs like [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) and [Hexo](https://hexo.io/) do a pretty good job on performance. Besides, for personal blogs (like mine), even SSGs which don't really focus on performance (like the popular Jekyll) will work just fine.

Addressing 3, are SSG-focussed hosting services, like [Ghost.io](https://ghost.org/), which take the pain of compiling websites and authoring configuration in markdown away, and keeping your content and workflow completely in the cloud. In addition, services like these usually have "admin panels" with good integration with SSGs, which makes the whole experience of authoring much more seamless.

If I were willing to spend any money on this whole effort, I would have chosen this route. But I wanted to use completely free services for my website.

## Hosting options

Like I said, any web server which can serve files will do, so many free and cheap hosting options become viable. We just need to decide where to host the files.

An increasingly popular options these days, especially among developers of any kind, is [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). Essentially, GitHub allows us to host any repo as a static website. This is great for projects which can host their websites along with the source code, but it is also great for blogs, due to GitHub Pages' [Jekyll support](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-as-a-static-site-generator-with-github-pages/).

GitHub's Jekyll support means that we don't have to compile our blogs. If we decide to Use Jekyll for our SSG, GitHub will take care of compiling the website automatically. Want to write  post? Create a new Markdown file, type away, and commit the file. The change will be reflected on your website as soon as GitHub automatically compiles the site (which is usually seconds to minutes). We can even do this right in the browser using GitHub's excellent editor.

This, 

## Workflow

Using SSGs, it is easy enough to build simple workflows. Once we setup the environment and 

As I said before, I wanted to build the site myself.

Initially I wanted to use 

Enter text in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/). Use the toolbar above, or click the **?** button for formatting help.
